README.md, before:

# Attic

**Attic** is a self-hostable Nix Binary Cache server backed by an S3-compatible storage provider.
It has support for global deduplication and garbage collection.

Attic is an early prototype.

```
⚙️ Pushing 5 paths to "demo" on "local" (566 already cached, 2001 in upstream)...
✅ gnvi1x7r8kl3clzx0d266wi82fgyzidv-steam-run-fhs (29.69 MiB/s)
✅ rw7bx7ak2p02ljm3z4hhpkjlr8rzg6xz-steam-fhs (30.56 MiB/s)
✅ y92f9y7qhkpcvrqhzvf6k40j6iaxddq8-0p36ammvgyr55q9w75845kw4fw1c65ln-source (19.96 MiB/s)
🕒 vscode-1.74.2        ███████████████████████████████████████  345.66 MiB (41.32 MiB/s)
🕓 zoom-5.12.9.367      ███████████████████████████              329.36 MiB (39.47 MiB/s)
```

## Try it out (15 minutes)

Let's [spin up Attic](https://docs.attic.rs/tutorial.html) in just 15 minutes.
And yes, it works on macOS too!

## Goals

- **Multi-Tenancy**: Create a private cache for yourself, and one for friends and co-workers. Tenants are mutually untrusting and cannot pollute the views of other caches.
- **Global Deduplication**: Individual caches (tenants) are simply restricted views of the content-addressed NAR Store and Chunk Store. When paths are uploaded, a mapping is created to grant the local cache access to the global NAR.
- **Managed Signing**: Signing is done on-the-fly by the server when store paths are fetched. The user pushing store paths does not have access to the signing key.
- **Scalabilty**: Attic can be easily replicated. It's designed to be deployed to serverless platforms like fly.io but also works nicely in a single-machine setup.
- **Garbage Collection**: Unused store paths can be garbage-collected in an LRU manner.

## Licensing

Attic is available under the **Apache License, Version 2.0**.
See `LICENSE` for details.

By contributing to the project, you agree to license your work under the aforementioned license.

Commit message:

doc: add docker compose example

README.md, after:

# Attic

**Attic** is a self-hostable Nix Binary Cache server backed by an S3-compatible storage provider.
It has support for global deduplication and garbage collection.

Attic is an early prototype.

```
⚙️ Pushing 5 paths to "demo" on "local" (566 already cached, 2001 in upstream)...
✅ gnvi1x7r8kl3clzx0d266wi82fgyzidv-steam-run-fhs (29.69 MiB/s)
✅ rw7bx7ak2p02ljm3z4hhpkjlr8rzg6xz-steam-fhs (30.56 MiB/s)
✅ y92f9y7qhkpcvrqhzvf6k40j6iaxddq8-0p36ammvgyr55q9w75845kw4fw1c65ln-source (19.96 MiB/s)
🕒 vscode-1.74.2        ███████████████████████████████████████  345.66 MiB (41.32 MiB/s)
🕓 zoom-5.12.9.367      ███████████████████████████              329.36 MiB (39.47 MiB/s)
```

## Try it out (15 minutes)

Let's [spin up Attic](https://docs.attic.rs/tutorial.html) in just 15 minutes.
And yes, it works on macOS too!

## Goals

- **Multi-Tenancy**: Create a private cache for yourself, and one for friends and co-workers. Tenants are mutually untrusting and cannot pollute the views of other caches.
- **Global Deduplication**: Individual caches (tenants) are simply restricted views of the content-addressed NAR Store and Chunk Store. When paths are uploaded, a mapping is created to grant the local cache access to the global NAR.
- **Managed Signing**: Signing is done on-the-fly by the server when store paths are fetched. The user pushing store paths does not have access to the signing key.
- **Scalabilty**: Attic can be easily replicated. It's designed to be deployed to serverless platforms like fly.io but also works nicely in a single-machine setup.
- **Garbage Collection**: Unused store paths can be garbage-collected in an LRU manner.

## Docker compose example

To use this you need to create a `./attic/server.toml` with your config pointing to the other directories.
You also need to create an empty `./attic/server.db` that atticd can take over.

```yaml
version: '3.7'
services:
  attic:
    image: ghcr.io/zhaofengli/attic:latest
    volumes:
      - ./attic/server.toml:/attic/server.toml
      - ./attic/server.db:/attic/server.db
      - attic-storage:/attic/storage
    command: [ "-f", "/attic/server.toml" ]
    ports:
      - 8080:8080

volumes:
  attic-storage:
```

## Licensing

Attic is available under the **Apache License, Version 2.0**.
See `LICENSE` for details.

By contributing to the project, you agree to license your work under the aforementioned license.
